Hello!
My name is Rajendran!
I am launching this playlist, titled “Quotidian”,
on my YouTube Channel.
I want to meet you daily, with a little tidbit
of interesting information.
Let me give you a brief introduction about
what this is.
Let me first introduce myself to you, who
I am, and what I do.
I am Rajendran Dandapani, and I have been
employed at this company called Zoho Corporation,
for the past 25 years, right from the day
it was founded.
My current role involves managing engineers
who build world class software applications.
At the same time, ever since 2005, we have
been running an interesting academic experiment
called “Zoho Schools”.
I teach programming, design, marketing, and
soft-skills at this Zoho Schools of Learning.
As I grew more mature, with age and experience,
I have also been teaching the art of managing
to many of my colleagues.
And, at Zoho Schools, I lead a group of faculty
members, in my current role as President.
So, if I step back and take a look, a typical
day for me involves Managing, Teaching, Teaching
Managing, and Managing Teaching!
So, the stuff that I share with you every
day, I am guessing they will fall within one
of these four boxes!
Okay!
So, what then is a Quotidian?
And, why am I even doing it?
First up, the word “Quotidian”.
The dictionary definition goes something like
this:- “Daily, Commonplace, Mundane”..
Something that one sees nearly every day.
The boring, the usual, the uninteresting!
So, I am setting the expectations very clearly.
It is important that you understand up front
what you can expect from these!
All I am trying to do here is share with you,
the little nuggets, tidbits, tchotchkes, that
I encounter day to day, that I find interesting…
A “Quotidian” from me may just be that.
Quotidian!
Taking a second look at the word, one sees
that it is a portmanteau of “Quotes” and
“Comedian”.
We will be sharing and discussing a lot of
famous words and quotes by historic luminaries..
And, people call me a comedian often.
An inappropriate comedian sharing noteworthy
quotes!
That’s what you’ll get here.
If you see the number, I haven’t mentioned
it as “1” or “01”.
I chose “001” because I wanted to tell
myself that this is
a marathon.
A long game.
Set my destination far into the future.
I have thus told myself that I should take
this all the way to a thousand episodes!
Such explicit goal-setting and public-sharing
might even force me, remind me, encourage
me, egg me on, if on some day I doze off,
miss doing this, or feel out of sorts.
And, that’s the reason for the James-Bondish
numbering system!
There is a phrase in Japanese called “Kai
Zen”.
Roughly translates to “Changing for the
Better”.
Small changes.
Atomic changes.
Incremental improvements.
Not a dark night suddenly turning into a bright
day.
But a gradual onset of a dawn, through fifty
shades of grey.
Any change, any meaningful transformation,
will have to proceed only through gradual
steps.
Every day, to present something interesting
to you, I need to encounter it in the first
place, assimilate, make the connections, learn
from it, and share them with you!
So, it becomes a gentle positive pressure
on me to bake the “Today I Learned” phenomenon
right into my daily routine!
From the viewpoint of my wife, ever since
the Corona Lockdown started, I had lost motivation
to really groom myself, and the results were
turning out shabby.
Now though, as I have to appear on camera
in front of you every day, present to you
“presentably”, I have to foam up and slide
down, if you know what I mean.
And, that is a clear benefit if ever there
was one!
Hugh Macleod, a famous author, cartoonist,
philosopher, overall smart guy, says “If
you are successful, it’ll usually never
come from the direction you predicted.
(The same is true if you fail!)”.
Whatever goal or destination you chose when
you got started, that is usually never the
reason you succeed, that is usually never
the place you eventually reach.
Failure works the same way too.
Both success and failure are usually from
“out of left field”.
I don’t have some overarching goal or purpose
for starting this initiative.
I want to learn something interesting everyday
so I can share it with you.
Let’s see how it goes from here on out!
Thank you!